When we set up our Java EE environment in module 2,
the first requirement was to have Java already installed on your machine.
Java is a prerequisite for Java EE.
Same for Node JS and Angular.
To develop in Angular we need to have Node JS installed.
Node JS is a JavaScript run-time environment for
executing JavaScript code on the server.
Historically JavaScript was primarily used for client side scripting.
JavaScript was embedded in an HTML page and executed on the browser.
Node JS enables JavaScript to be used for server-side
scripting and therefore to produce dynamic web pages before
the page is setn to the browser.
Consequently Node JS has become the foundation of the JavaScript
everywhere paradigm and is mandatory for Angular development.
Here is the website of Node JS.
Node JS is open source and is part of the Linux foundation.
If we click on Downloads,
we can see that Node JS can be executed in most platforms.
If like me, you own Mac OS X,
you can either install the package or use the package manager.
A simple brew install node will do.
IF you don't have Node JS installed on your machine,
you can pause the course now and follow the installation instruction for your platform.